Fuck.
We've got a problem.
Hole's disappeared. We've searched
all the places where he usually hangs out.
Okay.
KAMPEN STUDENT HOUSE
- Hey.
- You have to understand something.
It's that I'm innocent.
I've never killed anyone.
I've been smuggling.
but that's all I've done.
You want to catch Waaler.
I can prove that Waaler has smuggled
a lot of fucking weapons.
I want you to find out
who's been framing me for four murders.
You'll get everything you need
to lock up Waaler.
Okay. We'll just do it
in a different order.
We'll get Waaler arrested.
When that's done. we'll have
some peace and quiet. and I'll help you.
No one will want to help me
now that you've caught
the fucking Bike Courier Killer.
- But you want Waaler.
- Easy.
And my evidence against him
is my only bargaining chip.
Do you get that?
You have to catch the killer.
And then I'll help you with Waaler.
Okay?
The Czech Republic at the end of the '90s
felt like a country that had just
awoken from an endless nightmare.
Scared and confused.
but happy to still be alive.
After the fall of Communism.
but before mass tourism.
it was the land of opportunity.
Back then. you could get by
on a few koruna a day.
I moved to Prague in my twenties.
The city was full
of booze-thirsty tourists
looking for cheap whores.
I looked good.
I did what I had to do.
I preferred women.
but I agreed to anything.
You need to be flexible.
Good evening.
I realized that I couldn't
keep living like this forever.
Suddenly.
an unexpected opportunity came along.
The guy I'd just blown
turned out to be a smuggler.
His specialty was
pentagram shaped blood diamonds
from Sierra Leone.
He wanted to pass along his legacy.
so he was looking for a protégé.
He said that my Nordic passport
and my looks were big assets.
I accepted his offer.
He took me under his wing.
I was pretty good at it.
I was only caught once.
Later. I realized that if I could get
women to fall in love with me.
to send me money every once in a while
over a longer period.
I'd earn just as much doing that
without taking any risks whatsoever.
But two years ago.
I had to stop doing that.
I was just smuggling.
Oh. yeah? What happened?
Petra.
Petra happened.
Do you know what it feels like
the first time you realize you have money?
You have agency over yourself
and other people.
I was forced
to stop conning women for money.
I wanted to stop smuggling weapons too.
just doing low risk jobs with jewels.
There's more money in weapons.
That is when I got
in touch with the Prince.
Good morning.
It was much later
that I realized he was a cop.
As I usually did every first meeting.
I documented everything.
I have someone posing as a tourist.
taking pictures of everything.
and some of the pictures would be of us.
So if a customer doesn't pay.
they get a copy
of the pictures in the mail.
a reminder.
and then it never becomes a problem.
I didn't need that with the Prince.
It was smooth sailing.
He was always on time.
Was this your only Norwegian customer?
My only big Norwegian customer.
This spring. I got in touch with a man.
He spoke Swedish. but sounded
like he'd lived in Norway for a while.
He'd clearly done his research.
He knew about my mother in Oslo.
He knew about
the pentagram shaped blood diamonds
that I'd had
as my specialty years earlier.
His name?
I never knew.
He knew I was doing weapons too.
so he wanted both.
He wanted a Ceska
with a silencer and a diamond.
And what exactly did you agree on?
There were some very particular demands
about the delivery.
It had to be in the Frogner Park.
by the Monolith.
Five in the afternoon.
In the middle of rush hour.
It worked out well for me.
It was easy to get there and back
without being noticed.
There was no particular risk
that I'd be recognized in Oslo.
I don't know that many Norwegians.
But I did fuck a Norwegian chick
in Prague once.
She was on her honeymoon.
But that was just work for me.
Anyway. I put the goods
in an agreed-upon trash can.
The money was transferred
to my account in Switzerland in advance.
The day after the delivery. he called me.
saying he wanted another delivery.
Same place. Same procedure.
The same thing happened again
three more times.
Five days apart.
The last time he wanted two deliveries.
One Saturday. one Sunday.
That is to say yesterday
and earlier today.
The diamond and the gun we found in
your suitcase were for the delivery today?
Mm.
Hi.
Hi. it's Harry.
Hi. Harry. I'm so glad you called.
because I've just spoken
to Maria Aminov and--
People take lots of pictures
of tourist attractions.
Could you help me?
Does this mean trouble for me?
Definitely.
So Detective Hole took
a potential serial killer out of custody.
and nobody knows where they are?
We have a small
and experienced team on the case.
Handpicked by Waaler.
Waaler is also leading the search.
Why haven't the uniforms been briefed?
And the duty officers?
We thought we'd wait
until after this meeting.
To hear... To hear your thoughts. Ivar.
My thoughts?
Waaler has promised
that he can find them within 24 hours.
So far. we have the spread
of information under control.
It's the four of us. and Groth who works
in custody. that know he's missing.
We have every opportunity to contain this
until Waaler and his team have...
solved the problem for us.
Mm-hmm. You're not saying anything.
Bjarne. What are you thinking?
No. I honestly don't understand
what's going on here. so...
It just doesn't add up.
Doesn't add up?
If it gets out that we've been
trying to contain this. then...
We'll be crucified.
But if it gets out
that we lost a serial killer.
we'll be crucified then too.
It's still possible to solve this...
quietly.
Waaler?
The only way to solve this.
is for me to do this my way.
That means keeping all of you
in this room completely out of it.
That is very generous of you.
but I can't accept
what I'm hearing as an offer from you.
With all due respect.
I don't think you have a choice.
It's 9.00 a.m.
You have until midnight. That's 15 hours.
The disappearance
will be released to the press.
This meeting never took place.
Track these numbers.
Uh. are we tracking Harry Hole? Why?
Why?
- Yeah.
- Because I said so.
Yes. good morning.
this is Beate Lønn from the Oslo Police.
I'm calling about
your guided tours in Frogner Park.
Ek.
Good morning.
- I have a message for you.
- Okay.
If Detective Harry Hole calls you.
we want you to do the following.
Ask him where he is. If he doesn't want
to tell you. ask him to meet you.
Tell him that you won't publish the story
if you can't see him face to face.
- It has to happen before midnight today.
- What story?
He'll most likely accuse another detective
whose name I'm not at liberty to say.
After you've spoken to him.
you'll call this number and let us know.
Questions?
I realize that you're police.
I'm a journalist. not a fucking...
Ek...
Your little brother is in cell A-107.
Every Tuesday. he gets.
just like most other druggies up there.
his doses smuggled in.
He injects it and never checks the drugs.
It's all been well so far.
Do you get what I'm saying?
- Why do you think Harry Hole will call me?
- He's desperate.
And because you gave him your number
outside the National Theater yesterday.
Have a nice day.
If Martin Aminov was in Frogner Park
when Barbara Svendsen was killed.
he's not in any of the pictures.
and I've checked hundreds.
Nothing that even resembles him?
No. He's not
in any of the pictures. Harry.
Beate.
- Yes. wait.
- Beate. here.
Okay. on Saturday at 5:02 p.m.
I take it back. Guess who I'm looking at.
Yes. does he...
Is he holding something?
A plastic bag or something?
I can't quite see. He's got a suitcase.
The other hand is obscured.
I need a different angle.
But at least Aminov was there.
But nobody was killed on Saturday.
so that's not an alibi for anything.
No. but it means that at least
some of what he's saying is true.
Fine.
I need your help. Aminov.
The woman I spoke to
is risking her job to help us.
I need something
that shows that it's worth it.
Like what?
She needs a picture
of you and Waaler in Prague.
Are you slow or something?
I can't give you my only bargaining chip.
If I use it now. you can just put
an end to rescue mission "Aminov."
I can put an end to that anyway.
We can't find a picture of you
from the fountain
the day Svendsen was murdered.
It's a little strange. don't you think?
Seeing as the tourists have "blitz bombed"
that fountain all summer.
At least it's bad news
for you and that story of yours.
Is there a picture
of you and Waaler together?
My computer in Prague.
Good. Then you call your girlfriend
and have her send it
to Beate Lønn in forensics.
I want a picture of you and Tom Waaler.
and she has 45 minutes to do it.
If not. I'll let you stay here handcuffed.
and I'll tell Waaler
exactly where you are.
Maybe she's showering.
Who is it?
Yes?
Forensics. Beate Lønn.
- Hey. it's Harry. Listen...
- Call me on my cell phone.
What's up?
Our hacking software is showing
that all communication
to and from forensics
is being monitored by a third party.
- That's Waaler and his team.
- I know.
They know you've called me.
so I can't keep helping you.
I'm sorry.
Aminov's girlfriend
will be emailing you a picture.
It shows Aminov
and Waaler meeting in Prague.
I want you to look at it
and tell me if it looks credible.
What do you think will happen if I get
some fucking email from Prague right now?
I need to make up an excuse as
to why you've been calling. What do I say?
You don't need to say anything
because I never called you.
What? You've already
called me three times.
But they don't know that.
I'm using an old cell phone
that I've swapped with a buddy of mine.
Yeah. so you knew
that this was going to happen?
Not that they would monitor anybody else.
but I knew they'd be tracking my phone.
I'd like to know as little as possible.
Don't send me anything.
Fine.
I'm getting in the usual signals every
half hour but spread all over town.
Yes. I can see that.
It's going here and there. and sometimes
back to where he's already been.
I mean. there is no pattern.
I'm from the police.
Do you have a computer I could borrow?
NEW MESSAGE
TO PETRA@MAILDIRECT.COM
I've sent something
you need to take a look at.
Okay.
This was taken last Monday.
around 5:30 p.m..
half an hour after Barbara Svendsen
was shot at Carl Berner.
You can easily bike from there
to Frogner Park in half an hour.
The bike courier.
Maybe.
- Are you seeing this?
- What?
It looks like a band-aid.
Should we be looking
for people with a band-aid on their knee?
Or a scar. mole. tattoo.
Something he's hiding.
First. we need to figure out
if this could be the murderer.
Yes.
Yes. How the hell do we do that?
We talk to the only man we know
who has seen the murderer up close.
Clausen.
Are you be done soon?
Almost.
You think you know who it is?
It's just a theory. I don't know yet
if this is the Bike Courier Killer.
I don't have any proof.
It's just a theory?
You don't know?
No. I don't know.
It could be a coincidence.
I do believe in coincidences. but...
Just not this one.
But now. I know what I need to do.
I'm sorry. I got home late last night.
You're bleeding.
Yeah. Truls was a little too playful
at the cabin. so we played too much.
Come in.
Thank you.
Maybe.
Maybe?
It's possible. yeah.
He did have the same clothes
and the same helmet and sunglasses.
And a band-aid on the knee?
Like I said earlier today.
I'm not entirely used to
studying men's bodies that closely.
but if it may please you.
my immediate feeling
is that this is the same guy that I saw.
Apart from that...
Maya Ek.
This is Harry Hole.
I want you to listen very carefully.
I have information
about the Bike Courier murders
and about weapons smuggling
that involves a colleague of mine.
You will get a scoop if you post it
on the front page as soon as possible.
Where are you calling from?
It doesn't matter where I am.
I have information proving that Martin
Aminov is not the Bike Courier Killer.
and that a high-ranking police officer is
involved in a weapons smuggling league
that's been operating in Norway for years.
I mean. that's amazing.
but you do understand I can't write that
based on one phone call?
Right. But I have proof right here.
No serious newspaper
will print an accusation
of a named detective
smuggling weapons
without verifying the source.
I know your voice.
so I know that this is you.
but how am I supposed to know
that you aren't drunk or crazy?
I get what you're saying. but if I don't
verify this properly. we can get sued.
Believe me.
I want to print this.
But we need to meet first.
Fine. Schrøder at St. Hanshaugen.
five o'clock.
You come alone. or else I bail.
And hey...
Not a word to a single soul. Got it?
What do you have. Skarre?
So Harry's phone is constantly
on the move and impossible to find
but there is another cell phone
on your list that has called
the forensics internal phone line
several times.
Okay.
It's registered to Øystein Eikeland.
He comes up as a taxi driver.
Yes. and?
There could be a connection
between a taxi driver and a phone
travelling all over the city constantly.
Okay. got it. Keep going.
Talk to me.
Check his left knee for cuts.
wounds or moles.
Hold on.
Let me see your left knee.
No. there's nothing there.
- Why?
- Clausen just identified the courier.
The same man was in the picture
in the park who was also at ABC.
What?
Okay.
What did he say?
He thinks he knows who the killer is.
Maridalsvannet. please.
Where. exactly?
Just drive. I'll let you know.
- Is it okay if I turn it up?
- No.
No...
I hate The Doors.
Strange.
I mean. Doors are Doors.
Oh. well.
Turn it off.
...would be great.
You think so?
- Of course.
- Yeah.
Hello.
Hi.
Just mineral water. please.
Yes. You can take a left up here.
In here.
What do you mean. into the woods?
Up here.
Shit. you know what... I can't do this...
It'll ruin the undercarriage.
Last time. I had to fork out
40.000 kroner for that shit. so...
You know what we'll do?
If you want. I can book you a new car.
They can come up here
and take you further.
Which phone will you use to call them?
Your own or...
Harry Hole's?
I don't know what you're talking about.
but this trip ends here.
I don't think so.
Eikeland.
It says in your records
that you're intelligent.
so I'm guessing that you know
what it is I'm after.
Where is Harry's phone?
Is it in the trunk?
Or in the glove compartment?
Or in your pocket?
Listen. Easy.
We can enjoy ourselves
for as long as you'd like.
I have all the time in the world.
Hey.
If you touch that alarm button...
I'll kill you. do you get that?
I've done it several times.
One time. it was around here. actually.
Where is Harry Hole?
Last chance. Eikeland.
Where is your little drinking buddy?
Where is he?
Harry.
No...
Open up.
There you go. Open wide.
Let it go all the way in.
I'll count to five.
One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
I don't give a shit about his phone.
Where is Harry?
Wait.
He's at home.
We've already been there.
Try again. you idiot.
He's in Oppsal.
Oppsal. that's where he...
That's where he... Where he grew up.
Oppsal.
We've been tracking your phone for
over four hours. so we know where it is.
It's not in Oppsal. which means
that you just lied to me. you fucker.
Wait!
Hush. quiet.
Hello.
What?
Schrøder at five?
Okay. Gather as many as possible.
Okay. Um...
Downtown. please.
Okay?
Are you sure
Harry Hole hasn't been here yet?
Absolutely.
Hello?
No show.
What should I do?
You'll stay there until 8 p.m.
and call this number if he turns up.
- We need to move on.
- But. Thomas?
As long as you do as we say.
nothing will happen to your brother.
None of this gets out.
No. of course not. but...
What are you going to do to Harry?
Have a nice evening. Ek.
That makes you sure
the thing with the journalist was a trap?
I only mentioned a police officer.
and she said detective.
That means she knows it's Waaler.
There's only one way she figured that out.
He's made her trick you.
Yeah. maybe it was a mistake.
but I feel she was trying to warn me.
Yeah. and maybe they were
tracking the conversation.
Maybe the line was bugged.
Do you get paranoid?
Yeah. maybe...
But that doesn't mean that it's not...
That they're not after you. I know.
I'm the same.
There must be other journalists.
None that I trust.
Anyway. I don't think I should be
calling more from this phone.
They'll be tracking us.
You're definitely paranoid.
Why would Waaler know about that phone?
The deal I made with my taxi friend
was that he was supposed to call me
from a call center at Grønland between
five and six if everything was okay.
And now... it's ten past six.
That means that they already know
about that phone.
And they're on their way.
In that case. I think you're doing
very little to get us out of here.
FORENSICS
- Beate Lønn.
- Hi. this is the lab calling.
Listen. it's about that seed.
Shit. is that a burner phone?
If you've had a burner phone
in your pocket this whole time.
why did you call from that other phone
that you knew could be tracked?
You tell me.
- You want him to find us.
- Yeah. Interesting theory.
- Hi.
- Hi. Beate. It's Harry.
- Hi. Harry.
- Have you found anything new?
I just got the results from the lab.
It is the type of seed that you suspected.
- Thank you. that's exactly what I needed.
- So it is him?
Yes.
Thank you. Beate.
You stay here.
But what's this?
Seeds.
Was that Hole you were talking to?
No.
- No?
- No.
No.
Let go.
I thought you liked this.
What do you want?
I want to give you a chance.
- To do what?
- A chance to keep your job.
I know that Hole called you
from his taxi driving buddy's phone.
- Where is he?
- I don't know.
- Answer me!
- I don't know!
- Where is he?
- I don't know.
- Where is Hole?
- Don't lie.
- I said. I don't know!
Don't lie! I'll break your arm. I swear.
I'll break your arm. Answer me.
Send in Holm!
- Now!
- Okay.
If you utter a word about this.
I'll fucking kill you. Do you get that?
Holm. can you go to the lab?
What's going on?
ARE YOU FAR AWAY. BABY?
DON'T KEEP ME WAITING.
Good night. honey.
- Yes?
- It's Harry Hole.
From the police.
What can we do for you?
Isn't she beautiful?
This is my Galatea.
Your sister and my whore of a wife.
Subtitle translation by: Trine Friis